Git & Github Assignment - 1


Q1. What is Git ?
Ans-> Git is an open source Distributed version control system.
It developed to manage Projects with high speed,and   Efficiency.
Git was created by Linus Torvalds in 2005 to develop the Linux kernel.
It is easy to learn and has fast Performance.


Q2.  What do you understand about the term ‘Version control System’?
Ans -> Version control system is system software that helps  allow us to monitor and provide coordination on the work among the developer.
It is a very helpful and beneficial software system that helps a team to manage and track the changes in a source file.
They maintain the history of code modification.
They provide communication between team members in an efficient  manner.and increase Productivity.


Q3. What is Github ?
Ans -> Github is cloud based,Git repository hosting service that provide web based Graphical user Interface
Using a github team manager can collaborate,review , guide the team member in an easy way.




Q4.  Mention  some popular git hosting services ?
Ans-> Github ,Gitlab,Bitbucket etc.is a popular git hosting service.  


Q5.  Different type of  version control system ?
Ans-> There are 3 type of version control system
1. Local version control system
2. Centralized version control system
3. Distributed version control system


a)Local version control system -> It is a tool that helps individual track and manage changes to file and directories on their own system.


b)Centralized version control system-> It is a system where a single central server stores all versions of files and user access files by connecting to this  central server.


c) Distributed version control system -> It is a system where every user has a  full copy of the Repository , including its entire history. This allows users to work independently and share changes with others .


Q6. what benifits come with using git? 
Ans-> Git provides several benefits for developers and teams collaborating on software projects like Version Control ,Branching and Merging,Collaboration,Code Reviews,Traceability and Auditing,Security and Access Control,integration with CI/CD,Easy Deployment and Rollback,Offline Work etc .
Q7. What is a git repository?
Ans -> git repository is a file structure which contains several files on git.Git can either store the files on the local or the remote repository.


Q8. How can you initialize a repository in git?


Ans->To create a  repository, open command line on your desired directory and run the init command as follows:
1. $ git init  
The above command will create an empty .git repository.